    The YCALC man page
     groff -man -Tascii ycalc.1 | more 
 
     Created from original ycalc MANUAL file Mon Dec  1 23:13:33 GMT 
     1997 by  ben @dl6rai.muc.de
 
     additions by un@pobox.com
     980122 : added url to archive
     980205 : description of LRN SST BST GTO RST R/S
Name
ycalc - An X Window Calculator, Based on Texas Instruments TI-59 

Synopsis ycalc 

Description

Scientific calculator for X-windows, heavily influenced by TI-59.
Named  ycalc to avoid confusion with  xcalc. 

Operation of the calculator is performed by clicking with any of the
mouse buttons on the keys, or - in many cases - by using the keyboard. 

Calculator key usage

0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 . / x - + = ( ) +/- 
Do the same as on every calculator, the calculator follows standard
operator precedence which can be altered using  ( and ). 

CE 
Clear entry, clears the last entry, ie. the X register.

CLR 
Clears the calculator stack. 

EE 
Enter exponent. 

2nd 
Makes available a second function for certain keys, these keys changes
when 2nd is pressed (see   2nd function keys below). 

INV 
Inverts the function of cartain keys.

LRN 
Toggle between programming (LeaRN) and normal mode. 

SST 
Single step, in programming mode step to show next program line, in
normal mode execute one program line. 

BST 
Back step, in programming mode step to show previous program line, no
effect in normal mode. 

GTO 
Goto a specific program line, not implemented yet. 

RST 
Reset program counter to line 0. 

R/S 
Toggle between Run and Stop of program. 

A B C D E F 
For entering hex digits when the calculator is in base 16 mode. 

STO 
Stores the X register in one of memory 00-99, the next two digits
entered defines the memory number. 

RCL 
Recall one of memory 00-99 to the X register, the next two digits
entered defines the memory number. 

SUM 
Adds the X register to the contents in memory 00-99, the next two
digits entered are the memory number. 

Hex 
Places the calculator in hex (base 16) mode. 

Dec 
Places the calculator in decimal (base 10) mode. 

Bin
Brings up the binary window. x<->t Exchange the X and T registers. 

x^2 
Squares the X register. sqrt Calcuates the square root of the X
register. 

1/x 
Inverts the X register. y^x Raises Y register to X:th power. 

lnx 
Caclulates the natural logarithm of the X register. 

Off 
Exits the calculator if pressed twice without any other key between. 

About 
Brings up a window with version information and short copyright and
GNU license information. 

2nd function keys

Rad 
Puts the calculator in radian mode for trigonometric functions. 

Deg 
Puts the calculator in degree mode for trigonometric functions. 

Pi 
Enters an approximation of PI into the x register. 

Eng 
Puts the calculator in engineering exponent mode, ie. the exponent is
a multiple of three. 

CMs 
Clear all memories. 

Exc
Exchanges one of memory 00-99 with the X register, the next two digits
entered defines the memory number. 

Prd 
Multiplies the X register with one of memory 00-99, the next two
digits entered defines the memory number. 

sin 
Calculates the sine of the X register. 

cos 
Calculates the cosine of the X register.

tan 
Calculates the tangent of the X register. 

1st 
Reverts keys to the normal function. INV Inverts the function of
cartain keys. 

log 
Calculates the 10 logarithm of the X register. 

CP 
Clear program. 

Off 
Exits the calculator if pressed twice without any other key between. 

Asc 
Brings up the ASCII table window. 

Oct 
Places the calculator in octal (base 8) mode. 

x! 
Calculates the faculty of the X register. 

Cut 
Copies the X window global paste buffer to the X register. 

Pas 
Copies the X register to the X window global paste buffer.

Mod 
The modulus operator. 

DMs 
Brings up the memory window. 
 
Binary window

The binary window has three rows of 32-bit binary display, three
markers to right of the binary display rows and eleven buttons. 

The bits of the binary display rows can set/cleared by clicking with
any of the mouse buttons on it. The three markers selects, by clicking
on one of them, which binary display row is the active. The active row
is the one mirroring the main calculator display and the one affected
by the shift, rotate and inv keys.

The three operator keys - and, or & xor -  operate on row  one &  two
and put the result in row  three. 
 
ASCII table window

The ASCII table window has a main area with the ASCII table, a four
character display at the left upper corner and an off key at the upper
right corner. 

The display mirrors the main calculator display but is displaying it
as four ASCII characters instead. By clicking with a mouse button on
an ASCII table entry, its value is entered into the calulator display.

Memory window

The memory window displays the contents of twenty of the calculator
memories. By clicking a mouse button on the keys, the previous twenty
or the next twenty are displayed. 

Author
Ulf Nordquist <un@pobox.com>. 
http://home.swipnet.se/~w-33493/ycalc.html
